# Angular

## Node.js

- Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform **run-time environment** built on Chrome's V8 JS engine.
  - Used to execute JS code outside of a web browser, by providing a library of various JS modules, simplifying web application development.

### npm - node package manager

- npm is a package manager for the JS language.
  - It is the default for JS's runtime environment, Node.js.
- 3 Components of npm:
    1. website: discovers packages, sets up profiles, and manages access to public or private packages
    2. Command Line Interface (CLI): runs from a terminal and allows for interaction with npm
    3. registry: public database of JS packages comprised of software and metadata

## Node.js and its importance to Angular

- Angular is a front-end framework used to create a web application and is written in TS.
  - The browser can only understand JS code; therefore Angular TS must be compiled into plain JS.
    - Node.js and npm perform this compilation, allowing for production deployment.

## package.json file

- Normally located in the **project root**, this is allows npm to identify the (Angular) project and handle its dependencies
- Contains metadata relevant to the project (i.e. project description, project version, license information, etc.)
- This file is generated by Node.js when running the `npm init` command in the terminal.
  - Contains the following:
    - **name**
    - **version**
    - **description**
    - **main** (entry point)
    - any **scripts**
    - the **author**
    - **license** type
    - **dependencies** - essential for running applications, as it contains a list of packages/modules installed via npm, for a functional project
    - **devDependencies** - solely used in the development of applications, as it lists the packages/modules required only for development; these packages will only be required on developer machines and are not required for the production build
  - Structure sample shown below:

```json
{
  "name": "MyApp",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {...},
  "keywords" : ["util", "functional", "server", "client", "browser"],
  "author" : "John Adams",
  "contributors" : [],
  "dependencies" : [],
  "devDependencies" : [],
  "repository" : {..},
  "license": "ISC"
}
```

## TypeScript (TS)
- TypeScript is a typed superset of Javascript.
    - It is an **open-source** and **object-oriented programming** (OOP) **language** that supports classes, interfaces, inheritance, modules, etc. and was developed by **MICROSOFT**.
- Similar to JS, it may be utilized to manipulate the DOM for the purposes of adding or removing elements.
- Portable across browsers, devices, and OS.
- Supports **strong typing** or **static typing**, unlike JS.

## Angular History
- Angular is a **TypeScript-based open-source framework** used to develop **dynamic web applications**.
- Angular is a Single Page Application (SPA) Framework.
    - SPA : a web application that can fit on a single page
        - All code (JS, HTML, CSS) is retrieved with a single page load.
        - Navigation is performed without refreshing the whole page.

### Angular Version (Release Dates)
- AngularJS (October 20, 2010)
    - AKA Angular 1
- Angular 2 (September 14, 2016)
- Angular 4 (March 23, 2017)
- Angular 5 (November 1, 2017)
- Angular 6 (May 4, 2018)
- Angular 7 (October 18, 2018)
- Angular 8 (May 28, 2019)
- Angular 9 (February 6, 2020)

**Angular** is normally referred to as Angular 2+ (4-9), to distance the modern framework from the original AngularJS.

